README.md, before:

# Monster Spawner

[![python](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=python&message=3.10%2B&color=informational&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/)
[![black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/python/black)
[![wemake-python-styleguide](https://img.shields.io/badge/style-wemake-000000.svg)](https://github.com/wemake-services/wemake-python-styleguide)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Checked with mypy](http://www.mypy-lang.org/static/mypy_badge.svg)](http://mypy-lang.org/)
![Continuous Integration and Delivery](https://github.com/microcraft-alpha/monster-spawner/workflows/Github%20Actions/badge.svg?branch=master)

## 📝 Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Getting Started](#getting_started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Development](#development)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgement)

## 🧐 About <a name = "about"></a>

Simple `FastAPI` application that manages Minecraft monsters. General purpose of me doing this at all, is to learn some new design patterns, while learning how to use `FastAPI` and `SQLAlchemy` together. In this example I wanted to extract and decouple service and domain layers of the application. Thus, some useful abstractions can be found in the `domain` folder. Since this is a very basic app, you can use it as a starting point for your own app.

## 🏁 Getting Started <a name = "getting_started"></a>

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

To get started you need to have `Docker` installed and optionally `Poetry`, if you want to have virtual environment locally. All the needed commands are available via `Makefile`.

### Installing

First, build the images.

```bash
make build
```

Then, you can just start the containers.

```bash
make up
```

After that, you should be able to see the output from the `FastAPI` server. It will be running on port `8002`, so you can access the documentation via `http://localhost:8002/api/docs`.

## 🎈 Usage <a name = "usage"></a>

There are also few useful commands to help manage the project.

If you have `Poetry` installed, you can run below command to have all the dependencies installed locally.

```bash
make install
```

In case you want to avoid installing anything locally, you can enter server container and run other commands from there.

```bash
make enter
```

After making changes to the models, there is an `alembic` command to create a new migration.

```bash
make makemigrations
```

There is also one to apply the migrations.

```bash
make migrate
```

The last command is actually being used every time before starting the server.

## 🔧 Development <a name = "development"></a>

To make development smoother, this project supports `pre-commit` hooks for linting and code formatting along with `pytest` for testing. All the configs can be found in `.pre-commit-config.yaml` and `pyproject.toml` files.

To install the hooks, run the following command.

```bash
pre-commit install
```

Then you can use the following to run the hooks.

```bash
make lint
```

There is also a command for running tests.

```bash
make test
```

`pytest` is configured to use database separated from the one that app uses - by default its the `postgres` one. Tests are also using different sessions to have a clean separation. You can check more fixtures in the `conftest.py` file, or the general configuration in the `pytest.ini` section.

## 🎉 Acknowledgements <a name = "acknowledgement"></a>

To get more insights about design patters in Python i highly recommend [Architecture Patterns with Python](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/architecture-patterns-with/9781492052197/) by Harry Percival and Bob Gregory.

I also strongly encourage to check out the [ArjanCodes](https://www.youtube.com/c/ArjanCodes) YouTube channel, where many Python concepts are explained.

A big inspiration for this project was [SqlAlchemy 1.4 async ORM with FastAPI](https://rogulski.it/blog/sqlalchemy-14-async-orm-with-fastapi/) article by Piotr Rogulski.

Commit message:

Add event bus and domain events

README.md, after:

# Monster Spawner

[![python](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=python&message=3.10%2B&color=informational&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/)
[![black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/python/black)
[![wemake-python-styleguide](https://img.shields.io/badge/style-wemake-000000.svg)](https://github.com/wemake-services/wemake-python-styleguide)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Checked with mypy](http://www.mypy-lang.org/static/mypy_badge.svg)](http://mypy-lang.org/)
![Continuous Integration and Delivery](https://github.com/microcraft-alpha/monster-spawner/workflows/Github%20Actions/badge.svg?branch=master)

## 📝 Table of Contents

- [About](#about)
- [Getting Started](#getting_started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Development](#development)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgement)

## 🧐 About <a name = "about"></a>

Simple `FastAPI` application that manages Minecraft monsters. General purpose of me doing this at all, is to learn some new design patterns, while learning how to use `FastAPI` and `SQLAlchemy` together. In this example I wanted to extract and decouple service and domain layers of the application. Thus, some useful abstractions can be found in the `domain` folder. Since this is a very basic app, you can use it as a starting point for your own app.

### Update

I've created another repositories under `Microcraft` organization, to proceed with implementing a little bit of Event-Driven Architecture. This repo obviously received an update to support publishing events, but I think I did a slightly better job in terms of DDD in the newer repos, so I highly encourage you to check those.

## 🏁 Getting Started <a name = "getting_started"></a>

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

To get started you need to have `Docker` installed and optionally `Poetry`, if you want to have virtual environment locally. All the needed commands are available via `Makefile`.

### Installing

First, build the images.

```bash
make build
```

Then, you can just start the containers.

```bash
make up
```

After that, you should be able to see the output from the `FastAPI` server. It will be running on port `8002`, so you can access the documentation via `http://localhost:8002/api/docs`.

## 🎈 Usage <a name = "usage"></a>

There are also few useful commands to help manage the project.

If you have `Poetry` installed, you can run below command to have all the dependencies installed locally.

```bash
make install
```

In case you want to avoid installing anything locally, you can enter server container and run other commands from there.

```bash
make enter
```

After making changes to the models, there is an `alembic` command to create a new migration.

```bash
make makemigrations
```

There is also one to apply the migrations.

```bash
make migrate
```

The last command is actually being used every time before starting the server.

## 🔧 Development <a name = "development"></a>

To make development smoother, this project supports `pre-commit` hooks for linting and code formatting along with `pytest` for testing. All the configs can be found in `.pre-commit-config.yaml` and `pyproject.toml` files.

To install the hooks, run the following command.

```bash
pre-commit install
```

Then you can use the following to run the hooks.

```bash
make lint
```

There is also a command for running tests.

```bash
make test
```

`pytest` is configured to use database separated from the one that app uses - by default its the `postgres` one. Tests are also using different sessions to have a clean separation. You can check more fixtures in the `conftest.py` file, or the general configuration in the `pytest.ini` section.

## 🎉 Acknowledgements <a name = "acknowledgement"></a>

To get more insights about design patters in Python i highly recommend [Architecture Patterns with Python](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/architecture-patterns-with/9781492052197/) by Harry Percival and Bob Gregory.

I also strongly encourage to check out the [ArjanCodes](https://www.youtube.com/c/ArjanCodes) YouTube channel, where many Python concepts are explained.

A big inspiration for this project was [SqlAlchemy 1.4 async ORM with FastAPI](https://rogulski.it/blog/sqlalchemy-14-async-orm-with-fastapi/) article by Piotr Rogulski.
